
# cfg
    import "github.com/ardanlabs/kit/cfg"

Package cfg provides configuration options that are loaded from the environment.
Configuration is then stored in memory and can be retrieved by its proper
type.

To initialize the configuration system from your environment, call Init:


	cfg.Init(cfg.EnvProvider{Namespace: "configKey"})

To retrieve values from configuration:


	porc, err := cfg.String("proc_id")
	port, err := cfg.Int("port")
	ms, err := cfg.Time("stamp")

Use the Must set of function to retrieve a single value but these calls
will panic if the key does not exist:


	porc := cfg.MustString("proc_id")
	port := cfg.MustInt("port")
	ms := cfg.MustTime("stamp")






## func Bool
``` go
func Bool(key string) (bool, error)
```
Bool returns the bool balue of a given key as a bool, else it will return an
error, if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to a bool.


## func Init
``` go
func Init(p Provider) error
```
Init is to be called only once. A Provider must be supplied which will return
a map of key/value pairs to be loaded. There are currently two Providers
implemented today, EnvProvider and MapProvider. All keys will be made lowercase.


## func Int
``` go
func Int(key string) (int, error)
```
Int returns the value of the given key as an int, else it will return
an error, if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to an int.


## func Log
``` go
func Log() string
```
Log returns a string to help with logging configuration.


## func MustBool
``` go
func MustBool(key string) bool
```
MustBool returns the bool balue of a given key as a bool, else it will panic
if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to a bool.


## func MustInt
``` go
func MustInt(key string) int
```
MustInt returns the value of the given key as an int, else it will panic
if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to an int.


## func MustString
``` go
func MustString(key string) string
```
MustString returns the value of the given key as a string, else it will panic
if the key was not found.


## func MustTime
``` go
func MustTime(key string) time.Time
```
MustTime returns the value of the given key as a Time, else it will panic
if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to a Time.


## func MustURL
``` go
func MustURL(key string) *url.URL
```
MustURL returns the value of the given key as a URL, else it will panic
if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to a URL.


## func String
``` go
func String(key string) (string, error)
```
String returns the value of the given key as a string, else it will return
an error if key was not found.


## func Time
``` go
func Time(key string) (time.Time, error)
```
Time returns the value of the given key as a Time, else it will return an
error, if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to a Time.


## func URL
``` go
func URL(key string) (*url.URL, error)
```
URL returns the value of the given key as a URL, else it will return an
error, if the key was not found or the value can't be convered to a URL.



## type EnvProvider
``` go
type EnvProvider struct {
    Namespace string
}
```
EnvProvider provides configuration from the environment.











### func (EnvProvider) Provide
``` go
func (ep EnvProvider) Provide() (map[string]string, error)
```
Provide implements the Provider interface.



## type MapProvider
``` go
type MapProvider struct {
    Map map[string]string
}
```
MapProvider provides a simple implementation of the Provider whereby it just
returns a stored map.











### func (MapProvider) Provide
``` go
func (mp MapProvider) Provide() (map[string]string, error)
```
Provide implements the Provider interface.



## type Provider
``` go
type Provider interface {
    Provide() (map[string]string, error)
}
```
Provider is implemented by the user to provide the configuration as a map

















- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)